you and Taylor Swift are the only two
people to ever break Ticket Master did
600,000 tickets in 48 hours your income
went from 50,000 per year to now a net
worth between 25 to 30 million I'm from
the country I should not be in the
position I'm in right now what advice do
you have for a hak tua girl it's so easy
to get Fu over in a contract I heard
that you're still editing your Tik toks
I still do yeah I was editing last night
an extra half second camera switch that
could ruin the entire bit you're about
to premere Netflix's first ever crowd
work special they were little nervous
just about the the concept of it how did
you think about your response after the
backlash the only thing I regret from my
last special was you're very good at
what you
[Music]
do dude I I know you're only doing like
a couple interviews so I appreciate you
taking the time and coming on dude of
course this is a priority man thanks for
squeezing Us in in such a small notice
no please man you know what's
interesting Netflix gave me early access
to your crowd workor special for real
yeah I watch the entire thing I got a
lot of questions by all means
the whole history of like specials and
going on platforms like comedians
typically spend a year or two years
refining their stuff and then putting
the best on you know platforms like
Netflix did you approach this with like
okay I'm not going to prepare anything
go out and film this and just put out a
special and how did Netflix react to the
fact that you're like you know I'm just
going to do this improv um they were
nervous a little bit because it had
never been done before on their platform
or to the level of production that we're
going to do it right and Netflix I me
they they spend money on these specials
you know like there's a certain
production budget like you have to hit
so you have to spend x amount of dollars
which means they're guaranteed to lose
at least this amount of money until it's
you know paid back was what's the
ballpark of
that I hope I'm allowed to say but it's
like between like5 and $600,000 like you
have to spend that much just for quality
control quality assurance of the
production is all what does that go into
CU like it seems like so intimate like
dude couldn't tell you if I'm being
honest luckily I had an incredible
production company with uh Christina
Sams and irony points um who who helped
piece this thing together to be honest
you could shoot this special easily for
the same quality for $2,000 no it looks
amazing I mean like the coloring and
just the and I watch all your past
specials and thank you cuz we did those
for between like 20 and 30,000 yeah I
want to talk about those too because the
way you put it on YouTube built on Tik
Tok and now on Netflix absolutely we'll
get into that but but yeah tell me more
so yeah you you uh there's a standard
you have to hit you spent the money and
yes so they were a little nervous just
about the the concept of it but they
were excited to do something new and of
all the comedians in the world right now
who are kind of known for crowd work I
mean I guess I'm leading the charge in
that whether that's a good or bad thing
um so they were excited enough to take a
chance on this which I was really
excited about as well because I also
wanted to do something different you
know I'm from the middle of [__]
nowhere Ohio I should not be in the
position I'm in right now like I'm from
the country dude my name was almost
Matthew like it
it's all the the odds were stacked
against and somehow I've been blessed
enough to be in this position so I was
like I feel like if I can do it like
anybody can do it if you have this quote
that I want to like read back because it
it just took I was like watching one of
your YouTube videos you said nobody's
going to hand you [__] like if you're
going to do something you have to do it
on your own um so if we could rewind
back before like the Netflix special
which should talk about more um like
take me in those days of like you trying
to make it as a standup comic because if
I'm recalling correctly Matt your income
went from like 40 to 50,000 per year you
said to now having like a net worth
between 25 to 30 million yeah it's uh
it's insane and thank you for saying it
back to me sometimes it's nice to hear
um for years man I I I had had such a
roller coaster of a career like I got I
got wild and out and that was a
phenomenal launching platform for my for
my career uh it's not what I wanted to
do forever which is why I left the show
CU it's easy to get stuck isn't the
right word but it's easy to get
comfortable on that show and not want to
leave cuz you're on a fun TV show for
season after season after season you
know but
financially the show does not pay well
at all it's about $1,000 an episode
really and you're not on every episode
of the season and you have to be
available so it's like you're in New
York or LA or Atlanta for three weeks of
filming and you can't go do anything
else and you're maybe on four episodes
you make four grand for the month and
that's before taxes agent manager wow so
you know you're you're netting I don't
$1,500 you know um so but you know it's
it's a little bit of money it's more
than I was used to Growing Up in Ohio
you know um and I remember I just I was
I was bouncing around to to just doing
feature spots I was back to like not
even headlining anymore I was going back
to having to open for other comedians on
the road which means you have to fly
yourself out you have to put yourself up
you're getting $100 a show so I mean
again you're back to profiting before
selling if you if you're able to sell
some merch before that probably $300
after merch $600 for the weekend maybe
um which you know you can get byy on
that but you're not going to have a life
by any means like what am I what am I
doing all this for how am I going to get
in front of people if nobody wants to
give me a chance I don't I'm not asking
for anything drastic just an opportunity
you know for to to get in front of
people like I I'm I was sitting on an
hour's worth of material that I've been
been touring around for a little bit of
headlining a lot of opening and it was
crushing like I I knew I was sitting on
a good fun set for at least where I was
in my career at that time and my friend
was like why don't you just do it
yourself you're sitting here complaining
about how nobody will give you an
opportunity like why don't you create
your own opportunity man like you have a
little bit of a following and comedians
are starting to put their stuff out on
YouTube like why don't you just do that
you might not make any money from it but
at least you get to put that product out
there because another big thing was was
social media and being like I was like
how am I supposed to grow my fan base
and I realized I'm not giving them
anything to become a fan of I'm just
coasting on the fans who saw me on wild
out who saw me a little bit on TRL or
who occasionally the 30 people who would
see me in a room somewhere on the road
you know and I was like yeah I'm not of
course I'm not getting new fans like
what is there to be a fan of so I was
like okay I'll put out this product um
which was my first special uh only fans
that um which was a genius Title by the
way thank you thank you can was that
like strategic like people were looking
up Matt R only fans yeah people kept
checking to see if I had an only fans
and I was getting those tweets stuff all
the time like do you have an only fence
do you have an only fence this is the
time you know the explosion of that
platform and I was like well if that's
going to be a number one Google search
why not directly correlate that with my
special that it'll be the first thing
that comes up since I don't have an only
fans um obviously didn't have the money
to do it at all I um I did a GoFundMe
crowdfunded it which I really did not
think was going to happen um I put it at
like 15,000 or 20,000 I think was what I
was like really praying for
and for some reason people were so
[__] supportive man like people
really believed me and wanted this
product for me and I'm I'm I'm so so
thankful to everybody who was a part of
that like you you helped all of this
happen from the jump of that and we
ended up raising like close to 30 grand
I think it was and we did it at a a
dance studio in North Hollywood all of
my friends helped out the whole crew
from the whole production from camera to
sound uh I direct directed it myself
really um to stacking chairs like I was
I was setting up all the chair all the
plastic chairs around the room to set
design like everything was just a favor
from everybody I think it was for like
90 people per
show and I'd say on average about 40
people showed up to those tapings like
the audience you see in the front was
really all that was there it don't get
me wrong I don't hold it against any of
my my my friends or or fans in the area
who wanted to come also I feel like it's
la like RSV PS are always like 40% less
oh exactly and this was my first
experience with that so I had a great
time with it I um I wanted to put it out
on YouTube for free just give people
something to be a fan of show them if
they haven't seen me on tour on the road
give show them a glimpse of what I've
been working on you know I mean I
haven't just been since TRL in a while
now I haven't just been sitting on my
ass like I've been I've been building
this thing that I've been trying to get
in front of you guys and if nobody else
will put it on their platform at least I
can give a product to the people uh you
famously said about another like uh
legendary comedian Jerry
is one of the most overrated comedians
no that no no no no no no that that
can't that can't be the quote IA but if
I if I did say that Jerry Seinfeld what
I meant you once said Jerry Steinfeld is
wildly overrated oh I know the amount of
hate I'm going to get this but it's okay
CU I don't think he would like me either
it's okay I think Jerry Seinfeld is
wildly overrated just for my own
personal preference oh I I apologize
that was me or what what was your intent
or why did you say that because I think
maybe there that shows a divide between
old comedy and new comedy it's a it's a
generational Gap that's all that's all
it is I did not mean he is one of the
most overrated comedians sorry that
that's the verbiage that I decided to
use I just meant his style of Comedy is
not that I like to watch and that's
totally fine here's this weird thing
about the comedy community and and and
fans in general you're allowed to not
like somebody and it's totally okay it
doesn't mean that person's a piece of
[__] it doesn't mean they suck it
doesn't mean they're not funny
Ricky D talks about it all the time you
can't say somebody's not funny you can
say they're not funny to you because
it's purely an opinion funny funny is
not a fact it's always up for debate
always and you are totally entitled to
like or not like somebody I happen to
not prefer his comedy versus somebody
like a RI jaase or Dave Chappelle and
that's totally fine I think Jerry
Seinfeld is a genius he is one of the
greatest comedians of all time now I do
think comedy was a lot easier in the '
80s and '90s I think younger comedians
are going to have a tougher time being
creative because in the ' 80s and '90s
nothing had been done yet you know a
little bit in the 70s I guess but all
topics were kind of fresh that's why you
look back and you see so many what what
could be considered uh like cornier
jokes about how you know my wife's
always nagging at me women love to shop
you know what I mean like this very
Baseline level comedy but at the time
that hadn't been done yet it was just
purely relatable so to the people at
home they were going yes this is my life
how finally somebody talks about a thing
that is real to me you know what I mean
but 40 years later so many of the base
topics for living have been talked about
you know so you have to put you're
you're forced to not generalize any of
your material like everything has to be
specific to your experience which you
should that is the best comedy but we
didn't get the opportunity to generalize
topics which you know fed a lot of I
mean look at like most sitcoms back in
the day like that was very base level
base level relatable humor which crushed
it was hilarious and at the time it was
genius but today comedians have to be
very cognizant of making sure they don't
talk about a bit that maybe a famous
comedian did in the 90s when they
weren't even born yet you know what I
mean we might think of something and
people go it's already been done yeah
it's already been done it's already been
done like like what's uh there's like a
famous like I think it's a Family Guy
sketch where they're like Simpsons did
it Simpsons did it Simpsons did it just
cuz they've been around longer you know
so we have to compete against the
history of Comedy as well as the
internet everybody's a comedian on the
internet everybody does sketches meme
culture you know what I mean so there's
like I I can think of a bit or let's
let's call it more three four years ago
I can think of a bit I could be touring
it for a month or two but nobody knows
because I'm not posting my material and
only the you know the couple of dozen
people that are there to see me would
hear me do that joke and then somebody
does a meme of that joke they also come
up with it and they post it as a meme
now it goes viral now I can't do that
joke anymore because people think I
stole the joke from a meme so we're also
competing against the internet you know
there's so many different content
creators now that aren't not all of them
are comedians like I said some just do
sketch it could be streamers it could be
YouTubers whatever it may be we're
competing against a much larger market
of creators so I think we have to be a
little bit more clever and think a
little bit a little bit harder about the
things we want to do yeah and that's
also again why I love doing some crowd
work is because it's spontaneous it's
the moment I don't have to worry about
any of that kind of stuff because I know
it's just me and this person in this
moment and you do so many so much of
that in this um Netflix special that
that's about to come out um I want to
talk about your first Netflix special um
I mean that one uh was one of Netflix's
top standup specials like 10 million
views in the first two weeks just crazy
numbers insane um given how much thought
goes into the special and like how you
pick the jokes like I I have to ask
about the first joke that you've had in
that special I've only been to Baltimore
one time I ate lunch there and the
hostess who like seats you at the
restaurant had a black
eye a full black eye and it wasn't like
what happened it was pretty obvious what
happened we couldn't get over the fact
that we're like this is the face of the
company like this is this is who you
have greeting people and my boy who I
was with was like yeah I feel bad for
her man I feel like they should put her
in the kitchen or something where nobody
nobody has to see her face you know and
I was like yeah but I feel like if she
could cook she wouldn't have that black
eye so
just testing the water seeing if y'all
are going to be fun or not just wanted
to see how did you pick that joke to
open with and then um because it was
about domestic violence and there's like
backlash to it how did you go about your
response on Instagram and talking with
your team about it because I thought
that was just you know comedians in some
ways are like the Last Frontier of like
truth in our culture how did you think
about like that joke and then your
response after the backlash I think it's
incredibly immature for somebody to stop
watching a special because they don't
like the very first joke of the special
that's like not listening to an album
because you didn't like the first song
on the album that's it's like not
watching the six sent six cents after he
gets shot you know spoiler alert and
just be like what just about a guy
getting murdered you're like you think
that's what the whole movie is now
that's so dumb I I I put that joke
specifically at the beginning because if
you watch the rest of the special
there's way worse [__] throughout the
rest of the special
and I was just like okay I'm going to
let people know here I I have a very
dark sense of humor that's not going to
be for everybody but if it is for you
and it is for a lot of people a millions
of millions of people love that special
including the tens of thousands of
people I brand that set by in practicing
in preparation for that for that special
you think if that joke didn't work 150
times in a row before doing that taping
I would have kept it in there no people
loved it it was just a very specific
specific group on the internet who
didn't like it and you know it comes
with success if people find a tiny [__]
in your armor that they can exploit
they're going to take it and run with it
it's no surprise that in the past six
months six to six seven months millions
of people have watched that special I
haven't gotten one angry tweet it was a
very it was a it was a fun cultural
moment to get mad at a joke a totally
madeup joke nobody actually got hit not
a real thing whatsoever and that's fine
if you want to if you want to get upset
with it it's okay that means my comedy
is not for you and that's totally okay
you know what it did do it helped me
find an audience that's going to be with
me for a longer period of time because
if you didn't like if you didn't like
that joke you're not going to like the
stuff I'm going to do on tour either and
I'm not going to cater my set to people
who don't like my set that's not a
successful business model please the
people who already like you please the
people who love you and give them what
they want my fans gave me everything
that I have right now today another
reason I called my first special only
fans because it was created by the fans
and it was for the fans I'm for my fans
I I create for them I'm not going to
create to try to convince haters to like
me it's I'm not in the business of that
sorry yeah so coming off of the backlash
of that which I felt was wildly
exaggerated um I I didn't uh I didn't
talk to my team at all before I
responded and posted on Instagram at all
you didn't no they probably wish I did
um but uh no I I I thought it was ridic
I thought the backlash was ridiculous
and I thought the response would be very
funny and it
was just for people you posted a link on
your Instagram stories to like a special
needs helmet yeah and some people and
here's the thing about standup and art
in general it's all it's open to
interpretation right which is totally
fine you you have to allow people to
interpret things they the way they want
to interpret it my only issue with that
is I do not feel like I am responsible
for your interpretation to a certain ENT
you might want to defend yourself you
might want to explain just a little bit
more but I feel like I said my peace and
the the interpretation that people who
got mad at that response had was they're
like oh he's making fun of disabled
people never what what comedian would do
that besides Carlos Mania in like you
know early 2000s in might mania's show
uh that wasn't my response all no no no
I was I I was saying like if you were if
you were offend if you were offended by
a totally madeup joke and thought I was
advocating for something so evil just
because I made a joke about the act and
a joke about act are not the same thing
so I was saying if you were offended by
that maybe you need one of these helmets
had nothing to do with the community who
who actually uses them I would just say
may maybe you should also wear one
that's all I think there's a lot of
other people who are trying to like make
a name for themselves like on social
media and like graduate into other stuff
like obviously you've been doing it for
a very long time what advice do you have
uh you know for like people online like
like like the hak Tua girl like she's
having her moment What's one move in bed
that makes a man go crazy every time oh
you got to give him that hu too and spit
on that thing you get me what would
advice would you give to her my best
advice would be to use both hands
personally um but if we're we're talking
about her
success I would
say I would say be responsible um make
good business decisions coming out of
because here's the thing about um
overnight success for whatever you think
my career is versus somebody who's
literally in the spotlight right now for
something random and funny like the HW
Tua girl is there's no there's no
shortcuts whatsoever an example I've
used before is
like if if I'm an overnight social media
success I'm so [__] happy I had 10 11
years of just eating so much dick
beforehand because and and and forcing
myself to get ready for this because if
I would have had the success I had right
now
four years ago even I could not have
handled it creatively or business-wise
maturity wise or even endurance wise you
know I I would not have been ready for
it so like your timing is such a big
part of your success as well you you
really have to be ready for the
situations that present himself when I
got wild and out I actually auditioned
for it uh two years before that when I
was 17 yeah I think I just turned 17 two
seasons before I got it I auditioned for
it didn't get it and when I got it I was
like oh my God if if I would have got
this two seasons prior they would have
kicked me off the first episode I would
have made it through a workshop you know
what I mean like you have to be ready
for these situation so I would just say
there's no shortcuts you know take your
time you do not have to be so gigantic
and famous in this exact moment right
now because just because you feel like
you're not getting it right now people
aren't giving you opportunities maybe
you're not supposed to have the
opportunity yet so for somebody like her
who's in that situation right now I
don't know what you turn that into I
don't know I had heard in a real sorry
in in an interview that she wants to do
a reality show I think she should do it
I don't know what that is um from my
understanding she seems like like just a
wholesome sweet Small Town country girl
like she seems like a [__] great
person and I would really hate for the
entertainment industry and the internet
to do what it does to everybody who gets
success as much as people love to build
you up they [__] love to tear you
down so I would say as much as I don't
know what a reality show or any project
is for her pod
whatever it may be cash the [__] out do
it make your money take advantage of the
situation that's presented itself we we
make the most random things famous on
the internet some are deserving some are
not she seems like a fun nice girl cash
in get a check buy your mom a house get
a get a fun car for yourself you know
what I mean but just be responsible
because as as easy it is to have uh to
to be a flash in the pan it can it can
go away so fast man yeah and I think
also just like if you have the those
like moments of fame or people discover
you having a catalog of creativity for
people to go back and binge on like you
did is so important uh what's the best
business advice you've ever been given
real quick I want to say thanks to
nordvpn for sponsoring this video now I
know you may have heard of vpn's before
but here's two big reasons why they're
important to us as creators first you
can find inspiration from all over the
world because nordvpn lets you log into
YouTube from different countries because
there's many servers across the world so
if you're logging into the Brazilian
YouTube you can see that Felipe Netto is
trending over there or checking out
YouTube in Japan cooking Creator bayashi
is just crushing it so a lot of
inspiration to pull from second let's
face it most of us live and create on
the go which means we're connecting to
public Wi-Fi and airports and coffee
shops and I don't know about you but
when I'm handling the finances of my
Channel or doing stuff that's more
private I don't want to be logging into
networks called cafe Wi-Fi or hotel
lobby but with nordvpn your data is
encrypted which means you're safe no
matter where you are so use my link for
a discount on a 2-year plan and get 4
months free by going to nordvpn.com
USI plus it's all backed by nord's
30-day money back guarantee so again go
to nordvpn.com johi J N yo ha AEI or
check out the link below in the
description and now back to the video
reportedly Dave chel saved you over
$300,000 on a no close to like $700,000
$700,000 yeah on a lawyer yeah what was
that story and what other other like
piece of business advice or things that
you keep in mind now because it's it's
very unfortunately common that comedians
lose it all you know like the Dane Cooks
of the world who like had like money
stolen or people not watching their
accounts like what have you done to like
think about the business side as the
creative side is taking off you know
it's definitely the the toughest side
for me I'm uh very uneducated in that
department and it's it's hard to learn
you know when I speak to my business
managers a lot of the time I go okay now
how would a person say that you know
what I mean like how would a regular
human being understand that um but the
Dave Chappelle story is is is is fairly
simple we were negotiating a fairly
large deal for something and most
lawyers take 5% and this 5% was going to
equate to about 3/4 of a million dollars
and I was telling Chappelle this just
casually asking for advice and uh he was
like don't do that I I'll put you in
contact with a guy who will do it hour
do it for an hourly rate and the hourly
rate was x amount of dollars but it was
significantly significantly it was under
$50,000 we ended up using them for for
the entire negotiation of the of the
project so rather than pay 5% I was able
to find somebody to just do it hourly
and I didn't even know that was a thing
because in the entertainment industry
it's fairly standard for a lawyer to
take 5% and they deserve it they they
negotiate so much for you they they they
make sure you don't get [__] over by
the way I don't know if I'm allowed to
curse on this or not I apologize if I'm
not allowed to um it's so easy to get
[__] over in a contract not always
intentionally I'm not saying every
industry or Studio whoever it may be
sends you a contract is trying to [__]
you well I mean Dave Chappelle got
screwed over he had that whole special
if there's ever a person to trust with
financial decision making it's exactly
him yeah he gave away his name image
likeness to Comedy Central and then had
to famously get it back when Comedy
Central sent or sold the licensing to
exactly so yeah no it's unfortunately
all too common but that's why you need
somebody and I'm so blessed to have
somebody like that to kind of just guide
you in the right direction you know um
so yeah he say he saved me so much money
on that there's just so much just the
verbage could just be slightly different
could change everything you know so you
have to be well protected you have to
have a lawyer that you trust that you
like has a good track record and uh and
I do I do have a full-time lawyer now
who uh who does a fantastic job so I'm
very happy with it but you know that's
that's a lesson that he had to learn the
hard way and I'm so happy to that I got
to listen to his advice um so that I
also didn't have to deal with the same
kind of experience now obviously I
wouldn't have lost nearly as much as he
did um so there's different severities
obvious but you know that's why listen
you can't have an ego about this job you
you can't sit there and go I know how
this is supposed to be done you don't
I'm 28 years old he's 50 do I really
think I know more than him about any
aspect of this job business or
creativity no of course not so you got
to just listen man don't be don't be
afraid to ask for advice you don't have
to take it you don't have to take it
just take it with a great assault that's
all yeah the craziest thing I heard is
that you and Taylor Swift are the only
two people to ever break Ticket Master
we're the only two yeah that's that's
pretty insane actually I like to think
that we're on the same level boy Travis
Kelsey I got you dog
um I want to but even knowing that and
all the shows you're doing like take me
on the tour bus because I heard that
you're still um editing your Tik toks at
that time and still do a lot still do
yeah I was editing last night yeah how
many hours are you spending editing Tik
Tok I I definitely do not have the time
anymore to edit my own stuff but I I
have to I'm very specific about the the
timing and the cuts of things I in the
very beginning like around that same
time that like the tour went on sale I I
dabble with a couple of different
editors to be like hey if I just send
you a clip and tell you like hey clip up
you know from the 5 minute Mark of this
show to the 15minute Mark just trim it
down to the comedic Parts make it the
best to could be they leave out things
or I mean comedy is all about timing
obviously so I mean a an extra half
second of a pause between a cut or just
you know a camera switch or they might
take out just a breath in the punchline
thinking it wasn't a necessary breath
when it really was why the punchline
worked um that could that could ruin the
entire bit the entire clip so I was just
like you know what I I'll do it myself
and then I hired uh who's still my
videographer one of my best friends Kyle
vanney um now we have a dual process
he'll um I will he he takes notes
throughout my entire he's my
videographer as well so he records all
of my shows we we now have two cameramen
but he's the he's the head one he sits
at the back of the room tracks me the
whole time on the main camera and takes
notes of any Crow workor interaction I
have he'll be like I think this was a
good one this one was like fine and um
well he'll remember it and at the end of
each show he'll um when I'm back in my
green we'll bring the laptop in and
we'll go okay from you know again 5
minutes to 15 minutes this was a good
clip of of of this lady or this guy and
then he'll send me that 10-minute cutup
and then I'll go through that 10 minutes
and edit it down comedically to what I
think the clip should be and then I send
it back to him and it depends on how how
long the clip is to edit but on average
I'd say anywhere between 30 minutes to
like 50 minutes for for me to cut it
down comedically just depending on what
the clip is you know if it's a one
minute clip it could take 20 minutes
minutes maybe just depends on how long
it was in the beginning versus how long
I get it down to and then I send it to
him and then he switches between the
camera angles he'll do the editing of uh
switching camera angles and he'll do all
of the uh the captioning are there any
other things that you think that folks
would be surprised to hear you still do
and are still that involved in like the
editing probably the editing and just
the amount of travel that we do man it's
unbelievable like I said we do 40 plus
shows a month and we're usually in a
different city every single day so if
we're not on the tour bus we're flying
in between cities every day like the
amount of travel and Performing I think
people just would not believe it's it's
unlike what any other comedian does or
would do and for a good reason yeah uh
quite irresponsible to do it the way we
did it but you know when you're when
you're used to hearing no no no no no no
no no no and getting no money no money
no money no money and then you get
presented with yes yes yes yes yes yes
it's it's hard to say no man and I I've
been lucky to have great mentors like
Dave Chappelle to you know tell a little
too late for the tour going on sale but
to tell me like you know you don't you
don't have to do everything right now
you know what I mean like if if as long
as you continue to make your people
happy you can make them happy every
other day you can make them happy every
week you don't have to do it you don't
have to make them happy eight times a
day you know um then people who support
you are going to support you the people
who love you are going to love you you
don't have to capitalize on this right
now don't act don't act like you're a
flash in the pan yeah like you're built
for longevity like act like it you know
at 28 years old you're the youngest
person to ever sell out the ollywood
bowl like 17,000 attendees and we're
talking about like the Beatles Adele
like huge names have played there um
what was that moment if if you could
take me through like the rise up that
you're like oh [__] my my life is really
changing now I'd say the easy answer was
when the problematic World Tour went on
sale and we did
600,000 tickets in 48 hours of artist
pre-sale like not even the regular on
sale like just from people like from my
code or live nation's code was in insane
uh like I remember I was I was laying I
was laying in bed and like as tickets
went on sale my my phone's blown up for
my agent being like this sold out this
sold out this sold out this I'm like
didn't it just go on sale like five
minutes ago and the one that blew my
mind was uh we did the Palace Theater in
Columbus Ohio which was always a theater
I wanted to play because it was the only
it was the only other comedy show my
grandpa had ever been to he uh he went
and saw Gallagher at the at the Palace
Theater there and I was like I had never
been to it didn't know what it looked
like but that always stuck with me that
I was like I want I want to play that
theater and I think it seats it's May I
think it's like 1,800 seats or something
like that and we ended up doing two
shows there which was obviously blowing
my mind that you know 36 36 3600 people
would want to come to see me but I
remember going on Ticket Master to check
like the seating I'm like oh I wonder
like what what seats are still available
you like how's it moving there was
880,000 people in Q for just that show
in Columbus Ohio wow which is not our
biggest market so that that to me was
like oh my god like people want to come
see me because I was already on a tour
the the chipped shoulder tour was which
was just a tour I I put on from hitting
up comedy clubs I've been doing one
nighters at or opening for for the past
you know 10 11 years and I was loving
that so I guess that's the truthful
answer was that I was able to put on a
tour of a couple of one nighter and a
couple of weekends that were starting to
sell out in comedy clubs that to me was
I was like oh my God like I this this is
Success because I've never other than
opening for people and not even
everybody I've opened for like gets a
sell out a comedy club so to me that was
like the Pinnacle of success I ever
thought was achievable I was like if I
could just sell at a comedy club for a
weekend cuz that's all I'd ever been
exposed to really I was like that is
like you made it so the fact that I was
starting to do that that that I remember
is when I started to have fun doing
comedy I enjoyed it I loved it I enjoyed
you know opening for people is an easy
job you go up there 15 20 minutes have
fun there's no pressure on you it's the
easiest you're in the middle of the show
it's the easiest spot you know but once
you start headline there's a little bit
of pressure people paid money to come
see you and you better be funny for an
hour um so I was enjoying it but this is
when what I remember it was like January
of was it
2022 20 23 it was I believe yeah 2023
was when we started that tour of comedy
clubs and I was like oh my god like
people are here to see me this is
incredible we were having full weekends
in clubs and that to me was like okay
you you made it now just now just find a
way to keep this if you could just keep
this you'll be happy I'm curious like
when it came to this special what was
the process like of putting this crowd
work special together given that it's so
different than your last Netflix special
the only thing I regret from my last
special was not putting in any crowd
work I and that was intentional I didn't
want to do any of that because crowd
work was kind of what I've become known
for which is fantastic but it can also
pigeonhole you you know what I mean so
people have a certain expectation even
at shows now like I I make sure to carve
out a chunk of crowd work to do in the
showtime but like I still want to work
on my material and build my show right
so a lot of people wanted a longer a
long form version of crowd work and the
great thing about crowd work is that it
doesn't burn any material whatsoever
ever like when you come see me on tour
you're not going to see anything that
you've seen online and I I take great
pride in that CU so many comedians don't
switch up their set at all you know you
can I I'll post the exact same things
you're going to pay money to come see me
do live when you just saw it for free
online that's not fair to you so what I
love about Crow work is it doesn't burn
anything and it's new every single show
it's exciting for me I also every
comedian gets tired of telling their own
jokes if you perform enough which we do
over 40 shows a month for the past year
and a half so of course I'm of my own
joke so I look forward to Crow work
because it keeps me on my toes you know
what I mean I don't know what they're
going to say I don't know what I'm going
to say and we meet the most insane
people in the entire world so it's a lot
of fun for me so when uh when Netflix
reached back out to want to do more
specials we pitched the idea of a crowd
work special just because nobody had
done it on their platform before there
there's been comedians who have done
crowd workor specials before Todd Barry
is a genius at crowd work Ian bag is
also a phenomenal crowd work comedian
Andrew Schultz obvious great
f um so I mean it's it's been done
before but never really at this level
from somebody that people expect it from
and um we did want to pick a specific
theme being dreams obviously and that
was uh that was the most challenging
part only
because a lot of crowd work for a lot of
comedians is very Bas level where you
from what do you do how long you've been
together and that's I think that's why a
lot of don't gain the popularity
creatively from doing crowd work it's
like okay what's the conversation man
get ask the right questions be be Charis
really have a conversation with this per
with this person you know so we had to
find a topic that people would want to
converse about a little bit like have
some actual depth to and and to set
context for people listening like the
name of the special is lucid and it's
it's all crowdwork but it has that theme
throughout where you ask people about
their dreams you talk about your dreams
gets personal Stu and all kinds of
dreams everything from your aspirations
to nightmares or wet drinks whatever it
may be or this mom and her daughter who
have a like a [__] class or something
like how did they end up in the audience
I feel like the police probably should
have been called sh Protective Services
definitely should have been involved in
this special tap thing um but we meet
these amazing people who it's like you
you don't you would never believe the
types of Dreams some people have and
some people some of them are super
regular you know what I mean like we did
meet some people who were just like you
know I wanted to be a pro athlete it's
like well so many people want to do
that's a very you know that's a pretty
common dream and then you meet people
who uh exactly that like they just want
to they want to run marketing for their
mom's [__] class online and that's
like her dream thing she wants to work
with her family and she wants to work in
marketing so it's like by all means go
after whatever your thing is that is the
theme of the special is to chase
literally whatever you want to do like I
I fully believe you should do it for the
for the two months leading up to the
special taping I have I have shows five
days a week two shows a night so 10
shows every single week my Monday and
Tuesday Tuesdays are my days off and
they're usually travel days those two
days Mondays and Tuesdays is when I had
to go do I went back to comedy clubs to
practice the crowd work shows so for two
months straight I was doing seven days a
week two shows a night no breaks like at
all EX how do you practice crowd work so
because it's so spontaneous you really
you really can't but I wanted to the
reason I wanted to run practice shows
and quotes was because I just wanted to
know what the kinds of answers
was going to get you know what I mean I
wanted to know the the depths of them
like I mentioned earlier I wanted to
know if I'm going to hear you know are
people going to talk about just want to
be an astronaut or baseball player or or
people are I come to find out people had
so many things in depth like I wanted to
care for old people it's like okay well
why did you want where did this humility
come from I like well you know I wanted
I took care of my grandparents when they
were in hospice and I saw how many
people didn't have people there for them
you know what I mean like I I was so
intrigued in in the depths of which
people were chasing their dreams and
some of them are shallow like you know
like running your mom's [__] business
you know some of them are just funny and
ridiculous but some of them have some
real depth to it you know like we meet a
lot of people who uh one person who was
was in the special like she she works
with special needs students and I loved
that and her her her daughter also who
funny enough her daughter was also there
two very different families are in this
Crow work special and just diving into
like what made her want to do that like
why why why did she want to spec she
wanted to teach okay why specifically
special needs students and just wanted
really wanted to
be a helpful person and help out with a
a a
um underprovided Community you know so I
I was just I just wanted to know the
kinds of things people were going to say
you meet musicians you meet people who
want to be poets some people wanted to
be comedians you know um there was one
person who unfortunately didn't make the
cut for the special but like there was a
there was a kid uh I say kid he I think
he was like 21 years old 22 years old
who wanted to do com you know and that
wasn't a funny interaction but it made
it felt so good to actually like you
know Chappelle was able to give me
advice you know what I mean so it's like
for somebody who feels weird that
somebody would look up to me at 28 years
old but it was just nice to get to and
and I felt nice to inspire somebody it
felt nice to give honest advice letting
him know like hey it's it's going to
suck for a very long time you know you
have to love this you have to enjoy
busting your ass making no money bombing
for years years and years and years
traveling on your own taking Greyhound
buses to shows taking Mega buses to
shows you have you have to enjoy this
process you know you have to put
yourself in uncomfortable positions go
perform at the bowling alley go perform
at the laundry mat go perform in sports
bars during game seven of the NBA
Championship like you you have to be
prepared for anything and it's um it's a
very what's the word I'm looking for a
very um it's just an uncommon process in
world to thrust yourself into and I I
gave him I gave him some real answers
and I gave him some creative answers
write every day it's a bit hypocritical
of me I don't write every day but I wish
I would have and he he asked me about
crowd work he was like should I should I
really focus on crowd work absolutely
not it's never been something I've
focused on ever it's just something I
did for fun and I guess it was good and
people liked it so I started to do it a
little bit more and a little bit more
and a little bit more um but no comedian
should be focused on crowd work at all
if it happens naturally awesome for me
now I just find a little slot that
organically fits into a topic I'm
already doing bits about like right now
uh in part of my show I'm touring right
now I'm opening up a lot more about
anxiety and how it's affected my sleep
and depression and stuff like that and I
have bits about the things that cause me
anxiety and that's made me want to get
to know what causes other people anxiety
and and the things that cause them to
have depression and we can find a way to
laugh at those things together you know
I'm never comedians we don't make fun of
people we make light of your situation
and hopefully can bring some laughter to
the severity of your situation for that
special it's about an hour long on nli
um how many hours of footage how many
hours of crowd work like went into that
before you cut it down to the hour of
crowd work we had about three hours of
foot three or four hours of footage um
from the shows that we did there that we
were going to sift through and it was
nerve-wracking because during those
practice shows for doing you know four
shows every every two
days some of those shows were duds you
know what I mean you don't always get
good answers sometimes not I shouldn't
say good answers but like sometimes you
don't really get something that you can
work with you know not every comedian
has something brilliant and funny to say
about everything somebody says back to
them you know what I mean like what you
see online for any comedian are the
highlights you know we're not posting
the interactions that you just go all
right next okay and sometimes you can
have whole shows of that if you're just
doing crowd work because again I have
nowhere to go with this I can kind of
navigate it keeping it on the track of
theme of dreams but like I don't I'm not
going to go into material if it's not
flowing into something like that's
that's cheating you need to be put in
this position during the practice shows
that way when you actually get to the
taping if you get a dud of a response
you know how to you know how to turn
that dud into something funny or you
know how to hopefully seamlessly
transition it into talking to the next
person and talking about what their
dreams are you know so the possibility
of inconsistency was definitely
definitely scary but man the people of
Charlotte were were amazing man I I
don't know how I meet the people that I
do it's it's so amazing man and I've
really enjoyed doing these crowd workor
moments and meeting people because you
you just learn a lot about Humanity you
learn about their past what they've been
for I meet people who who have had
relatives pass away you know what I mean
and that's the thing they want to talk
to me about which is you know not the
place to talk to a stranger about your
trauma dumping but it's like it's very
obvious they want to get it off their
chest or sometimes they'll bring up
something that I can tell does make them
a little bit sad and I'll kind of dive
into or something that might be a little
sensitive to them and I'll and I'll I'll
I'll just conversation Al ask them
sometimes I'll prompt like if you don't
want to talk about it just say pass move
on to the next thing and they'll be like
no actually I want to you know such such
such such and I'll be like and that now
the door is open for me to make a joke
about that and there's nothing better
than when somebody brings up something
you can tell is a little touchy to them
and you get to you get them to laugh at
that that's probably the first time they
did that and like people don't
understand how much happiness laughter
can bring man like it's very cliche to
say laughter is the best medicine but
like it really is man you don't know how
many people who got mad
there were so many people who got mad at
that first joke from natural selection
right you wouldn't [__] believe the
DMS and and messages I got from people
being like I I'm a victim of that
circumstance and I this is exactly how I
heal through it through through humor
thank you for talking about it thank you
for making light of such a terrible
situation and it's helped me heal
through this process it's like you don't
speak for everybody just because you're
upset about something just because you
don't want to talk about somebody who
may have passed away in your family or
is dealing with cancer or whatever it
may be or is is disabled in a in a
wheelchair whatever ever it may be just
because you're uncomfortable with it
that's totally fun I can respect that
but there are so many people who do want
to laugh at that situation and need to
laugh at that situation so you don't
speak for everybody yeah I I I think
that's so well said um I'm curious as
you look ahead here like Beyond like
this special um what's something that
you want like people to like remember
about Matt re and uh like what what
you're trying to do as a comedian
today I think I just want people to
remember I was a comedian first because
I I I really my passion really is in
film and television and acting and
development and that's really where I
want my career to go and there there
might be a day that I am only doing
movies and don't have the the time to to
do stand up anymore you know or at least
tour the way I'm doing right now you
know I mean touring has been my life for
13 years now and it's all I've ever done
and it might not always be that way you
know that's not to say I'm I'm hopeful
for it or not hopeful for it you know
I'm interested to see where my career in
life goes and stand up is my is is my
first love for sure and it's made me
everything I am right now and I want to
do it forever but who knows where life's
going to take me you know so I just want
people to remember
that
I along with the support of my fans I
created all of my first opportunities
and I I I worked for everything that I
have right now and and intend to work
for everything I have for in the future
dude well it's amazing to just follow
your career and just see all the things
you're done I can't wait for people to
see this crowd work special it was
amazing to get a first look at it and to
sit down with you just hear more of the
story that people don't often hear dude
thank you so much man I appreciate that